In this video, you
will learn to describe
which compliance policies
most organizations
are required to follow,
described the use of audits
in cybersecurity compliance.
We go to compliance.
Here's a quick example of
couple of regulation
or compliance policies
that most of the organizations in
the United States or in
other parts of the world
need to have or to
implement in order to
operate certain countries.
So for example we have SOX.
SOX is a financial
compliance or financial
regulation program.
HIPPA, we already
mentioned HIPPA.
It's something related
to healthcare,
how the healthcare or
organizations deal with
the privacy of data of
their patients, for example,
how they transmit the data
between hospitals,
different healthcare
organizations and for example,
if they transmit the information
in a secure way for example.
GLBA is something
related to finance.
PCI/DSS, these are related to
the manage of credit cards
of financial processes.
So if you want, for example,
to start processing
credit cards on
your servers because you
have an online store,
probably you will need
to comply with PCI/DSS.
Normally, a lot of companies
that deals with PCI/DSS,
it's to perform, for example,
Panthers or [inaudible]
assessment on regular basis
for them to comply with PCI/DSS.
So here's just examples
for their compliance.
One of the last part
that are important to
understand is the main difference
between the process that
any organization could
perform in order to identify if
they are compliant with
a certain regulation
or a certain framework that
they want to implement.
One of the things that they
need to perform is an audit.
Now an audit could be
an internal audit or it
could be an external audit.
The internal audit is obviously
performed by
internal departments,
by internal audit department and
that's something normal with
most of the organizations.
That's a continuing process,
that's something that
is normally performed
during all the year,
during audit life-cycle.
But the difference here is
normally the internal
departments will generate
reports but those reports are
necessarily to improve the
operation of the organization.
The external audits are
normally based on requirements.
So for example, if
you want to comply
with PCI DSS you will need to
hire an external audit company
to generate a report
and understand in which of
the PCI DSS part you
are not complying,
or if you are complying in
all that PCI DSS parts,
while the external company will
let you know on the report
that you are able or
you can go now and apply for
a PCI DSS certification or
process to be a part
of or to start
dealing with credit
cards for example.
Now here is a methodology
which you could use in
your audit projects for example.
Basically these processes could
apply for external
and internal audits,
but are actually pretty
simple with three phases.
But inside each of the phases,
you will have a bunch of
steps and again this is
something to standard.
So it not necessarily means
that the same methodology
will be applied or will
be valid for
all the organization.
But this is just the baseline.
So on phase one,
you will have to understand
the organization view,
you will need to understand
the organization that
you are dealing with,
you will need to identify
the key players,
the key users for example
of system in motive to
start looking for any finding,
any incident or issue that
you may report in
your final audit report.
Also you will need
to create a profile,
you will need to create
a threat profile.
For example if you are
auditing a software,
you will need to understand well,
this is a web-based software and
one of the threats that
the software could have,
is cross-site scripting attack.
So it doesn't mean that
the software that you are
auditing right now is prone
to or have an issue regarding
cross-site scripting.
But that's something that in
phase number two and
phase number three,
you will need to assess and
you will need to identify.
So again if you know that you
are dealing with a web page
or the web software will
be prone to a cross-site
scripting attack.
On phase number two,
you will need to evaluate,
you will need to
understand and you will
need to debt or probably
interview to the creators
of software and
ask if they are already
perform any kind of
app for example,
Security Review on
the web system,
on the web application
and the results of
the review will have
something regarding
cross-site scripting.
If there is any security review
for that web system,
probably you will need
to create your own test,
your own assessment or you
will need to inform on
your report that
this software doesn't
have any security review.
That will guarantee
that is truthful for
example and the last part
is the risk assessment.
The risk analysis.
That process will translate
all your findings in
your audit report, into a risk.
This could be on the example
that we are talking about
the cross-site scripting,
if you detect that
the organization is not
performing any security
assessment and you don't have
any widths or any evidence
that will let you know that,
yes, this software is not
prone to cross-site scripting.
Well. You need to categorize
that finding into a risk.
Is this a high risk
for your organization?
Well. If your business depends
on that web system
probably it's a high-risk,
probably it's a critical risk.
So you will need to understand,
you will need to translate
those findings into risk.